Nov. 29

My final project will be a game highlighting the causes that are leading to the climate crisis and the attempt to reduce it. On the screen is the Earth. Factors that contribute to the cause of climate change will pop out at different times, and the player will need to eradicate them.


The game itself is inspired by an already made car game, where a car drives towards the right of the screen automatically continuously, but there are obstacles on the road. Therefore, the car will need to move up or down to switch between the three lanes to avoid the obstacles. The car in my game, will be Earth instead. The obstacles, in this case, will be different factors leading up to the climate crisis. When Earth bumps into an obstacle, the Earth "collects" the obstacle as they will show on one side of the screen. However, Earth already carries some of the obstacles, or the causes of the climate crisis, which is why it is also important to get rid of the obstacles. Earth can get rid of one obstacle by pressing both the up and down button continuously for 3 seconds while Earth is on the same lane. The impact of the climate crisis will be shown by a thermometer, where the temperature will increase according to how many obstacles the Earth have in its collection. When the temperature meets 1.5 degrees, the game will become harder, possibly by making the canvas/screen darker, even harder at 2 degrees where the Earth moves even faster. When the temperature meets 2.5 degrees, the game is over. 

When Earth bumps into the obstacle on Processing, Processing will send a signal to Arduino so that a red LED lights up momentarily. When the player successfully get rid of an obstacle, Processing will tell Arduino and the green LED will light up momentarily. 

The Arduino program will have two buttons to go up or down to switch between lanes. When one of them are pressed, Arduino tells Processing to either initiate lane-switching of going up or going down. When both of them are pressed for 3 seconds, Arduino tells Processing to initiate the get-rid-of-obstacle function.

I think the most complicated part will be how the Earth interacts with the obstacle, especially when it tries to get rid of an obstacle from its collection. However, I plan to take this step by step by creating Earth as an object that moves, only adding other features one by one. 

Dec. 7

I started off by figuring out how to switch between lanes using Processing and Arduino because I thought that was one of the most difficult parts of the game. As I took my previous work and modified to fit onto this one, I realized it doesn't really work. As I tried it a couple of times and it still doesn't work, I have decided to chanage the up down switch to the up down buttons on the keyboard. I then worked on the Processing part without using the Arduino to isolate the problems. Using the keyboard actually worked, so I figured I can just continue to work on the game on Processing, as most of the parts are on Processing. However, later I encountered another problem, which is I am not sure how to create two objects, or obstacles as used in my game, at once and have them have different x values but moving at the same pace. I want a new obstacle to appear after about 5 seconds while the old and new one are all moving towards the Earth. I was planning to finish the mechanisms and dynamics of the game by this date, but because of the mistakes I've encountered and unsuccessful debugging and insufficient planning, I am thinking to make my game simpler or even change it. I have also taken another look at the prompt of the final project and realize that I am not too focused on the interactivity of the game, which is something I would like to change.

CHANGE IN PROJECT

Dec. 8
For my final project, I have decided to create a musical instrument where adjusting the knob of the potentiometer changes the pitch of the sound and pressing the switch plays the sound (so that the user can manipulate the tempo). As I looked at the final project prompt again, I noticed the emphasis on interactivity and having the user getting an immediate response. I then decided it would be cool if the visuals can shift accordingly to how the pitch or tempo changes. I then looked through the examples provided by Processing and got inspired by the PeakAmplitude sample. I then decided to make a circle appear bigger when the pitch is higher and smaller when the pitch decreases. I have 8 pitches in total, each with its corresponding short piano audio file. The potentiometer adjust the pitches accordingly. Whenever Processing detects a change in the pitch, it will send a signal to Arduino so the LED can light up. On the other hand, Arduino sends signal continuously to Processing indicating whether the switch is pressed or not and if so, what the value from the potentiometer is so that Processing can change the size of the circle accordingly.

Because I want the audio to continue playing when the user presses the switch continuously, I did not set a state machine to only be able to play when the switch is initially pressed. However, when I ran the program for longer after pressing the switch for a period of time, the audio turned messed up with error sounds. This is potentially due to the continuous playing of the previous audio files. Also, the LED light does not turn off even though I included an if statement for it to turn off. I will look into these further in my next work session.
